in 2065 earth is infested by alien life
forms known as phantoms by physical
contact phantoms consume the gaya spirit
of living beings killing them instantly
though a minor contact may only result
in an infection the surviving humans
live in barrier cities protected by
energy shields that prevent phantoms
from entering and are engaged in an
ongoing struggle to free the planet
after being infected by a phantom during
one of her experiments scientist dr aki
ross mingenei and her mentor dr sid
donald sutherland discover a means of
defeating the phantoms by gathering
eight spirits unique energy patterns
contained by various life forms when
joined the resulting energy wave can
negate the phantoms aki searches for the
sixth spirit in the ruins of new york
city when she is
cornered by phantoms but rescued by
captain gray edwards alec baldwin and
his squad deep eyes consisting of master
sergeant ryan whittaker ving rhames neil
fleming steve bassemi and corporal jane
proudfoot perry gilpin it is revealed
that gray was once romantically involved
with aki returning to her barrier city
aki joins sid and appears before the
leadership council along with general
douglas hein james woods hein is
determined to use the zeus cannon a
powerful weapon aboard a space station
to destroy the phantoms though sid is
concerned the cannon will damage earth's
gaia a spirit representing its ecosystem
aki delays the use of the cannon by
revealing that she has been infected and
the collected spirits are keeping her
infection stable convincing the council
that there may be another way to defeat
the phantoms however this revelation
leads hind to incorrectly conclude that
she is being controlled by the phantoms
aki and the device squad succeed in
finding the seventh spirit as aki's
infection begins to worsen and she slips
into unconsciousness her dream reveals
to her that the phantoms are the spirits
of dead aliens brought to earth on a
fragment of their destroyed planet sid
uses the seventh spirit to bring aki's
infection back under control reviving
her to scare the council into giving him
clearance to fire the zeus cannon hein
lowers part of the barrier shield
protecting the city though hein intended
that only a few phantoms enter his plan
goes awry and legions of phantoms invade
the entire city aki sid and the deep
eyes attempt to reach aki's spaceship
their means of escape but ryan neil and
jane are killed by phantoms hein escapes
and boards the zeus cannon space station
where he finally receives authorization
to fire the cannon sid finds the eighth
spirit at the crater site of the alien
asteroids impact on earth he lowers a
shielded vehicle with aki and gray
aboard into the crater to locate the
final spirit just before they can reach
it hein fires the zeus cannon into the
crater not only destroying the eighth
spirit but also revealing the phantom
gaya aki has a vision of the phantom
home planet where she is able to receive
the eighth spirit from the alien
particles in herself when aki awakens
she and grey combine it with the other
seven hein continues to fire the zeus
cannon despite overheating warnings and
unintentionally destroys the cannon and
himself gray sacrifices himself as a
medium needed to physically transmit the
completed spirit into the alien gaia the
earth's gaia is returned to normal as
the phantoms ascend into space finally
at peace aki is pulled from the crater
holding grey's body and is seen looking
into the newly liberated world
[Music]